# Filesemmcpartitions

> Source: https://problemkaputt.de/gbatek.htm
> Section: Filesemmcpartitions

3DS Files - eMMC Partitions 
| |
| --- |

 The 3DS can have up to eight primary NCSD partitions, some of these partitions point to secondary MBR partition tables, each of those MBRs could have up to four child partitions (with FAT filesystems).
 
 **NAND structure**
 
```

| Offset Size Name _NCSD_partition_ AES Description
 FS crypt index key
 type type
 00000000h 200h NCSD header
 00000000h 0B100000h 0x01 0x01 0x00 03h DSi MBR
 00004000h 200h? - - - - Some Consoles: Dummy FAT16
 00012C00h 200h - - - 11h New3DS FIRM keys
 00012E00h 08FB5200h twln 03h DSi FAT16 File System, main
 09011A00h 020B6600h twlp 03h DSi FAT12 File System, photo
 0B100000h 00030000h 0x04 0x02 0x01 07h AGB_FIRM GBA savegame
 0B130000h 00400000h firm0 0x03 0x02 0x02 06h Firmware partition
 0B530000h 00400000h firm1 0x03 0x02 0x03 06h Firmware partition (backup)
 0B930000h 2F5D0000h 0x01 0x02 0x04 04h Old3DS: MBR
 0B95CA00h 2F3E3600h nand 04h Old3DS: FAT16 File System
 0B930000h 41ED0000h 0x01 0x03 0x04 05h New3DS: MBR
 0B95AE00h 41D2D200h nand 05h New3DS: FAT16 File System |
| --- |

**Physical Size**

```

| Device eMMC Chip Size
 2DS Toshiba ? 3AF00000h ;\943MB ;uh, all unknown
 Old3DS Toshiba ? 3AF00000h ;/ ;CID and chip names?
 2DS ? 3B000000h ;<-- 3AF00000h and up E3h-filled?
 2DS Samsung ? 3BA00000h ;\954MB
 Old3DS Samsung ? 3BA00000h ;/
 2DS Samsung ? 4D800000h ;\1240MB
 New3DS Samsung KLM4G1YE0C-B301 4D800000h ;/
 New3DS Samsung ? 74800000h ;-1864MB
 2DS Toshiba ? 76000000h ;\1888MB
 New3DS Toshiba ? 76000000h ;/ |
| --- |

**Encryption**

The NAND file system is encrypted using AES-CTR. The keyslot used for each
partition is determined by the NCSD partition FS type and encryption type.

NAND sectors which were never written to contain plaintext 00h or FFh bytes.

None of the NAND partitions are normally accessible from the ARM11, except for
twlp. CTR/TWL NAND FS can only be accessed when the exheader access control
descriptor for those are enabled. Normally the CTR/TWL NAND descriptors are
never enabled for retail ARM11 CXI processes. The ARM11 can only access
"nand:/rw/" mounted as the nandrw archive, and "nand:/ro/" mounted as the
nandro archive below.

**eMMC 4000h (on some consoles) (empty 00h-filled on others)**

On some 3DS systems (such as 3DS XL), there's a plaintext FAT16 boot record
located at NAND offset 0x4000. This block does not exist for launch-day 3DS
systems. This is the only plaintext block for this "partition".

That is, a 200h-byte VBR sector with string FAT16 (the actual FAT, Root, and
Data sectors don't exist... and the Data clusters would probably overlap other
partitions).

**eMMC 12C00h (aka Sector 96h) (New3DS only) (empty FFh-filled on Old3DS)**

```

| 000h 10h Used for generating Key X values for keyslot 15h and 18h
 010h 10h Used for generating Key X values for keyslot 16h and 19h-1Fh ;v9.6
 020h 1E0h Further constants (unused) |
| --- |

This 200h-byte sector contains New3DS keys, this entire sector is encrypted via
AES-ECB with a console-unique keyX+keyY. The keyX+keyY for this is generated by
the New3DS arm9bin-loader. Once the arm9bin-loader finishes decrypting this
data, the keyX+keyY in the keyslot are then cleared, then the memory used for
generating the keydata is disabled (after it finishes using it for TWL key
init).

The decrypted sector is same on all New3DS consoles (except, retail-vs-debug
are different):

```

| Decrypted 200h-bytes on Retail: 07h,29h,44h,38h, ..., 13h,63h,CFh,8Fh
 Decrypted 200h-bytes on Dev: Unknown... |
| --- |

**3DS CTR partition**

The structure of nand/title appears to be exactly the same as SD, except
savegames are stored under the nand/data/<ID0>/sysdata directory instead.
The sub-directory name under nand/data is the SHA256 hash over the movable.sed
keyY. This nand/data/<ID0> directory is the NAND equivalent of the
"sdmc/Nintendo 3DS/<ID0>/<ID1>" directory, however the data
contained here is stored in cleartext. The movable.sed keyY is only used for
AES MACs for nand/data/<ID0>. The nand/data/<ID0>/extdata directory
contains the shared extdata, and is structured exactly the same way as SD
extdata.

**DSi TWL partition**

The structure of these TWL partitions is mostly the same as DSi, except tickets
are stored in the CTR FAT FS. The twlp partition is exactly the same as DSi.
The structure of twln/title is exactly the same as CTR NAND/SD, except the .cmd
file is a cleartext file (this is likely a dummy file). The data directory
under system titles' /title directory does not exist, this likely only exists
for DSiWare. The directory names titleID-High used under twln/title is from
DSi.

**3ds:\__journal.nn_ (with system attribute)**

```

| 00000h 12 ID "LIAFEFAS1",0,0,0 (aka 1SAFEFAIL backwards)
 0000Ch 4 Total Filesize/200h (can be C0h=18000h or E0h=1C000h)
 00010h 4 Bytes 83h,3Eh,5Ch,89h or 86h,03h,0Fh,D7h (timestamp or so?)
 00014h 4 Value 01h (whatever)
 00018h .. Zero
 001DCh 4 Value 03h (whatever)
 001E0h 20h Whatever (maybe SHA256 on something) (3Fh,5Ch,AEh,20h,..)
 00200h 4 Value 06h (whatever)
 00204h 1F4h Zero
 00400h 200h Some FAT Directory sector with short filenames
 00600h 200h Some FAT Allocation sector with FAT16 entries
 00800h 7C00h Zero
 Below can be at 08400h..17FFFh, or alternately at 04400h..1BFFFh:
 08400h 200h Some FAT Directory sector with short filenames
 08600h 200h Some FAT Allocation sector with FAT16 entries
 08800h F800h Random garbage, or encrypted sectors, or whatever |
| --- |

Unknown purpose, might be some debug log, or undo-info for handling incomplete
FAT writes to the 3DS partition? If so, unknown if it's important to
update/delete the journal file after manually changing FAT contents (to prevent
the OS from corrupting/undoing the manual changes).

Unknown if there is a list of sector numbers for the 200h-byte sectors (maybe
that list exists, but gets zerofilled after completion?), unknown why there are
only short filenames (normally there should be also long/lowercase names).